all right there you have it there is our
full design our full answer to the
system design interview question how to
design YouTube all right welcome back
everyone uh we've been doing our best to
post once a week on this channel and the
reception has been incredible uh but I
have seen several of the comments that
are coming in asking for more of the
long form problem breakdowns like we did
in the beginning so I decided this week
I'd do exactly that I'd hop on here and
walk you guys through the really common
system design interview question how to
design YouTube and so uh this is not
only super popular but all the concepts
that we're going to learn here apply to
questions like design Netflix design
Hulu even design Spotify to some large
degree um so hopefully this is super
informative quickly I'm Evan former meta
staff engineer co-founder of hello
interview hello interview is a platform
that helps people just like you prepare
for upcoming software engineering
interviews and so if you haven't already
head over there and check it out what
are you waiting for it's got everything
you need um now if videos aren't your
thing we do have a detailed written
write up on this problem let me show you
that one here as well as 25 others um
and the overwhelming majority of these
are free so as you can see lots of
content here content here on key
Technologies question breakdowns come
over and check it out and you can
actually practice the problem yourself
and so this will take you to what we
call guided practice you can answer
questions by drawing directly on this
whiteboard and getting instant feedback
on how you did and how you can improve
so check that out if you haven't already
lastly as you can hear my voice I got a
little bit of a cold so apologies that
my voice is a little funny throughout um
but hopefully it's not too much of a
deterrent let's get after
it all right before we actually jump
into designing the system let's talk
about the framework that we're going to
follow both in this video and this is
the framework that we suggest that you
follow for any of your system design
interviews and so if you've watched any
of our videos in the past this is
probably redundant to you you know this
you can fast forward for anyone who's
new or anyone who wants a refresher the
first thing you're going to do when you
get a system design question is you're
going to start with the requirements and
this includes two things a the
functional requirements these are the
features of the systems like users
should be able to statements next is
your nonfunctional requirements these
are the qualities of the system so
things like scalability low latency
reliability fault tolerance Etc from
there you're going to move on to your
core entities your core entities are the
nouns of your system like if you have
tables these are the the tables
themselves this is the dat that is
persisted and
exchanged um and so for example on
something like Twitter uh you know this
would be a post a user something like
this from there we move on to the API
this is the contract with our users so
these are the external apis that users
are going to call in order to interface
with our system and this oftentimes
exchanges the nouns of your system or
those core entities so data flow is more
relevant for data processing question
we're going to skip that one cuz it
won't apply here so once we have the API
in place we move over to the highle
design the goal of the highle design is
to satisfy those functional requirements
so this is a really simple design that
is able to meet the user features not
worried about scale latency or any of
these things just yet but once we have
that simple High L design down is when
we get into the fun stuff we go to the
Deep Dives and here we go one by one
through our non-functional requirements
in order to make sure that our system
can scale is low latency fault tolerant
durable whatever we put in our
non-functional requirements this is
where we make sure that our system can
handle those qualities
effectively all right so let's get
started maybe really quickly before I go
over the functional requirements to we
should say what is YouTube the fact that
all of you are watching this on YouTube
means that I probably don't have to say
anything here but of course YouTube's a
video sharing platform allows users to
upload view interact with video content
uh fun fact YouTube is as of the
creating of this YouTube video the
second most visited website in the world
um so with that let's get started on our
functional requirements that first step
so our functional requirements let me
make sure that this is in the font that
you guys all prefer uh some of you have
told me that this one is hard to read so
we'll go with that one um and so these
are our users should be able to
statements these are the features of the
system and so in the case of YouTube the
first thing is that users should be able
to upload videos of course that's
straightforward and necessary the second
is that users should be able to uh watch
or download or stream videos so users
should be able to watch SL stream videos
those are our two main requirements from
the user's perspective that's what we're
going to be doing today now before we
get right into the non-functional
requirements it's usually smart at this
point to ask your interviewer about the
scale of the system um and make some
potentially estimates around the scale
assuming they haven't already told you
and so if I'm the interviewer and
somebody asks me as I'm designing YouTu
it well what is the scale what are we
working with here I would tell them that
we have about 1 million uploads every
single day that we have about 100
million daily active users and that the
max video size and this will end up
being important to our design is 256 GB
is actually true of real YouTube YouTube
is a Max video size of 256 GB or 12
hours and so with that we can move on to
our non-functional requirements
again these are the qualities of the
system and so if you if you struggle to
come up with non-functional requirements
on our website if you go to the learn
tab system design and then framework
it's going to give you a list of all the
things you should consider when you
think about non-functional requirements
all those IL statements that you should
be thinking about here but the first
thing that we typically want to do is we
want to consider cap theorem and so is
our system going to prioritize
availability or is our system going to
prioritize consistency because partition
tolerance in a distributed system is
always a given right and so when we
think about this particularly as it
pertains to uploading and viewing videos
when I upload a new video in say Germany
is the expectation that a user in the
United States sees this instantly and
immediately or gets an error and the
answer is of course no it's fine for me
to upload a video in Germany and it take
a couple seconds to minutes to maybe
even hours for a user in America to see
it and so as a result we're going to
prioritize availability
over consistency it's far more important
that able users are able to see the
current content on our site watch videos
Etc even if video uploads themselves are
eventually consistent it takes them a
minute to propagate to everybody so
availability your consistency for video
uploads um now the next thing that we
want to consider is that we talked about
256 gab that's a ton and so we should
call out in our non-functional
requirements that we need to support
uploading and streaming for large videos
specifically in our case 256 GB that's
going to be an interesting challenge for
us to pay attention
to remove that um and then we also want
to make sure that streaming is low
latency so we typically think about
latency in situations like this and we
want low latency streaming so when I
click watch a video I should see pixels
on my screen pretty quickly we'll say
maybe you know 500 milliseconds is what
we're going to shoot for and then this
should also be true in low bandwidth as
well and so even if I'm on a bag
connection I still want to get pixels on
my screen ASAP and the last one which is
almost always true is that scalability
so we want scalability to scale to 1
million uploads per day and 100 million
views right so at the end of our design
here together and at the end of your
design in a real system design interview
you're going to want to look back at
these things and say did I meet all of
these functional requirements and does
my system satisfy all of these
non-functional requirements all these
qualities of the system and if you can
do that then you're going to be feeling
really
good so with our requirements in place
now it's time for us to move on to both
the core entities and the API and so as
a reminder those core entities these are
just like the tables these are the
entities these are the nouns that are
going to be persisted saved in your
database and exchanged bya your apis and
so some guides uh will recommend that
you outline the entire scheme schema the
entire data schema this early in the
design you can do that if you feel
comfortable doing so by all means uh for
me I find that sometimes I struggle to
know the full schema when I'm this early
in the design CU I just don't have the
context yet and so instead I like to
just Orient myself around what are those
core entities that we're going to need
and then I'm going to go into detail on
the schemas later in the highle design
and I'll usually proactively explain
this to my interviewer as well um but in
the case of YouTube what are our core
entities well the main core entity is of
course a video this is the thing that is
uploaded downloaded watched streamed Etc
uh of course there's also a user this is
the person who's doing the uploading
streaming or watching so we would have a
video table and a user table now um this
might not have come immediately to you
and maybe this is a bit of mind reading
because I know where this is going to go
but videos themselves are made up of
like two parts they have the bites of
the video the actual thing that you
watch and then they have the video
metadata this is like uh the title of
the video the description of the video
the things that you input when you
upload it the privacy settings with all
this going to be out of scope for us um
and these two things are stored and
handled differently and so I know this
I'm going to split them up in my core
entities I'm going to have video which
is the raw bytes the actual video
information as well as the video
metadata and the user those are my core
entities uh now going on to the API when
you get to the API it's it's actually
straightforward you're going to want to
just come to your functional
requirements and go one by one through
them make making sure that you have apis
to satisfy each of them respectively and
so our first functional requirement is
users should be able to upload a video
cool so let's have an API endpoint for
uploading a video so we can have some
post endpoint that hits the videos
resource if you want to have versioning
any of that feel free to add it's not
the most important thing to me uh and
then what we're going to pass it in bya
the post body is the raw bytes of the
video our videos core entity as well as
the video metadata those two things are
going to be passed in at the same time
and so a quick call out if if if you
have some experience uploading large
files over post requests you're actually
going to know that this isn't going to
work for our 256 GB this is only going
to work for small videos um there's a
limit by either API gateways by servers
Etc whichever uh Hardware you're using
um there's going to be a limit on the
the size of your post body and most
likely we're going to uh be larger than
that limit but this is a reasonable
place to start and you'll see later in
our design that we come back and we
amend and we improve here
uh now the next one of those functional
requirements was that user should be
able to watch or stream a video and so
we'll add watch a video um and we need
an endpoint for this and this can start
simply as just get videos we'll get the
video ID and this is going to return to
us the raw bytes of the video for us to
watch as well as the video metadata for
us to know the title description and the
Creator and so those are the very basic
highle apis that as I said we're going
to come back to and improve in a moment
but at this point we've done the setup
we know our requirements we know our
core entities we know our apis and we're
ready to get into the fun stuff and
start actually drawing our highle
design so when it comes to our high
level design again our goal is just to
satisfy those core functional
requirements um and given that we
derived our apis from the core
functional requirements it's really just
to make sure that we can document
through components how each user API
request is going to flow through our
system and so let's do exactly that
we're going to start with um users being
able to upload videos since that was our
first requirement we're going to come
over here and start drawing so the first
thing is I'm going to have the client
this is the user's machine or browser
that's going to be uploading the video
and then they're going to be interfacing
with we'll put an API Gateway here you
see this in in most of our designs an
API Gateway is really just responsible
for routing uh to the appropriate
microservice that's the the most
important thing that does and then it
also does some middleware like
authentication rate limiting Etc and so
the client is going to hit our API
Gateway it's going to then route us to
at first our single service which is
going to be our video service we'll call
it our video service and this video
service then is going to be responsible
for taking that video and video metadata
and storing them respectively and so
I'll zoom in a little bit here but we'll
have two places to store our data the
first is that we're going to have a
video metadata DB and this is going to
be something like it could be Dynamo it
could be postgress it doesn't matter a
ton to be honest there's not a lot of
requirements on that we don't have a ton
of uploads 1 million per day um but the
video itself is going to be stored in
Blob storage so we could use S3 um we
could use what is what is Google's
equivalent called again GCS right and so
we can upload the actual video here Boop
upload video so upload video and then
store the actual video metadata
Here
video so store metadata
cool so straightforward enough user
makes a post request with both the video
and the metadata we store the video
itself in Blob storage in S3 because
this is going to be much cheaper uh and
then we store the metadata uh in the
video metadata DB now as I alluded to
earlier and we might as well just cut to
the chase there's an issue here and
that's that most components have some
Maximum on the total number of megabytes
that can be in a post request and so for
like an AWS API Gateway just to use it
as an example that maximum is 10
megabytes and so we can't have any video
that is larger than 10 megabytes and of
course that's that's not going to cut it
and so I'm slightly jumping the gun here
this is something you could discuss in
your deep Dives but given that it's such
a glaring issue with our highle design
I'm just going to take it head on right
away um note that this would be an
expectation maybe of a senior and a
staff engineer uh if you're junior or
midlevel there would really be no
expectation for you to know this you
should know that the video itself needs
to be in Blob storage and then the video
metadata can be in a separate either
relational or no SQL database um but
everything I'm talking about here is
maybe a just a little bit more advanced
and so our API Gateway in our case is an
Amazon AWS uh API Gateway a limit of 10
megabytes and so we cannot upload our
whole video in one shot and so if you've
watched our video on Dropbox you
understand the general strategy here and
that's that we're going to have to
upload in chunks instead and so
fortunately as opposed to uploading in
chunks ourselves stitching them in the
video service and then uploading S3
which we absolutely could do the more
common pattern is that we can upload
directly to
S3 and so by uploading directly to S3 so
upload directly to S3 by uploading
directly to S3 we're not having to pass
these bytes sometime a significant
amount of bytes through each of these
components right and this is going to
lead to network uh Network costs it's
going to lead to computation um and so
instead let's go right to S3 and then
fortunately S3 supports an API and that
API is called multi-art upload
multiart upload uh and similar uh GCS
supports resumable uploads it's the same
general idea but what multi-part upload
does is it allows you to upload a file
in chunks and then all those chunks get
to S3 and then S3 stitches it back
together and has that full formed video
and so the way that this actually works
now is that when we want to upload a
video we're going to come back here to
our API and we're going to update it
when we actually want to update a video
we're just going to update our video
metadata we're going to post our video
metadata and importantly that video
metadata is going to have the size of
the video
and so we're going to come in here we're
going to store that video metadata and
then instead of uploading to S3 we're
going to get
pre-signed
URLs and so what these are is this
telling S3 hey I'm ready to upload a 1
Gigabyte video file to you via
multi-part upload and so then S3 will
say okay here you go here are you know
some thousand pre-sign URLs for you to
put you know like post but in this case
is they're actually a put put each of
your video chunks to right so here are
all the URLs that you can use in order
to put them into S3 and so the client
then is going to get back all of those
pre-signed URLs and then on the client
we're going to chunk and like AWS has
via the SDK a multi-part upload API um
that will do all of this chunking for
you so chunk and then put to those
pre-signed urls
respectively and so this is just going
to upload them directly to S3 in chunks
and we don't have to go through this
limit of 10 megabytes through our API
Gateway cool and so then we end up with
a question and that question is if we
were to document what our video metadata
is it's going to have some ID for the
video uh it's going to have some of this
basic stuff like name and
description um but then it's going to
have some status some upload status and
this is initially going to be pending
and then it's going to want to know the
S3 URL like where's this actual video in
S3 and so because we're uploading this
way from the client the question becomes
how do we tell this video metadata that
our video has been uploaded and that we
now have an S3 URL and so once you
complete multi-part upload S3 is going
to respond to the client saying hey I'm
done now and here's your URL and the
client could post to the video service
and then we update it that way but we'd
be trusting the client and in general we
we don't really want to do that um and
the reason being that the client could
just lie to us the client could decide
to not tell us that something has been
uploaded and in doing so we would land
with an inconsistent State and so
instead the best practice here is that
S3 actually supports something that's
called S3
notifications S3
notifications and so what it does is it
basically just triggers a notification
that some Lambda function worker or or
server of any kind I'm abstracting that
can take that notification that
notification is completed upload for a
given video and then it's going to tell
you what that S3 URL is and so we can
take that our worker can take that and
come into our video metadata and update
the status to upload upload complete or
uploaded right and then update the S3
URL so that we actually have it now and
so in short this is how we would handle
the basic upload path so we we can now
handle uploading videos to YouTube let's
look at our next uh fun uh functional
requirement the user should be able to
watch or stream a video and so the first
easiest thing that we could do is that
the client calls that git request with a
video ID we look up the video metadata
uh we return to them the name
description as well as the S3 URL and
then I can make this a a a double-sided
Arrow they're going to download directly
from S3 as well and so to download
directly from S3 so client made their
git request they got back the metadata
as well as the S3 URL and then they
download the video directly from S3 now
again clearly for large videos this
isn't going to work well um but let's
save that for our very first deep
di so as we get into our deep Dives as a
reminder the goal of our deep Dives is
to uh to satisfy these nonfunctional
requirements and so the task is is
relatively straightforward we're going
to go one by one through our list of
nonfunctional requirements and update
our design until each of them are met
and so we can start here I'm going to
start with the second one support
uploading and streaming for large videos
we talked about upload already I jumped
the gun there a little bit but I didn't
want you guys to be left hanging with
something that was inaccurate for too
long um so we're going to focus on how
we can support streaming large videos
and so our current design has it that we
download directly from S3 now this has
some key limitations even if the video
was 10 GB large which is quite large but
significantly smaller than our 256 GB
maximum then when we want to download
the entire video from S3 it's going to a
take a while because we have a lot of
data that we need to send over B it
requires the client has like 10 gabt of
free memory just sitting there ready for
us to be able to use we need the
connection to be stable during the
entire length of the download um there's
a ton of limitations the biggest being
that first one that I'm going to have to
wait in some cases minutes or even hours
until I see the first pix of a video and
I don't want that I want to click on it
and I want to see the video right and so
the intuition here is actually very
similar to what we did for uploads and
that's that we need to serve the client
chunks of the video as opposed to the
entire full video and so once we have
the video here in S3 we're going to need
to re chunk it store those chunks and
then send those chunks over to the
client and so what I can do here is I
can add an additional component this is
going to be some workers that we call
our
chunker and then when S3 completes
similar to how it did for updating the
metadata it's going to send our chunker
in S3 notification saying hey I have a
new video I'm ready and then that
chunker is going to chunk it into these
small two to 10 second Clips uh the
smaller the better usually but depends
on on on the streaming technology that
we're using but 2 to 10 second clips and
then I'm going to store each of those
clips
back into S3 so store the chunks back in
S3 and then I'm also going to go update
my metadata and so I'm also going to
come here and update my video metadata
such that now we don't store only just
the the S3 URL maybe we'll call this the
full S3
URL um but we also store all of the
chunks and this is going to be a list of
S3 URLs and ordered list of the S3 URLs
right and so now when the client wants
to watch a video what we're going to do
is we're going to get that list of
chunks in the video metadata which is
going to be the ordered list of S3 URLs
and then we're going to request from S3
each of those respective chunks in like
2 second increments and so what this is
going to do is that instead of having to
wait for an entire 10 gab file to
download we're going to download just
that first Chunk we can get pixels on
your screen ASAP and then in the
background we can be downloading the
rest of those the rest of those chunks
now the question you might be asking is
like wasn't this redundant we chunked on
the client side in order to upload in
chunks and then we stitched it back
together into a full video in S3 S3 does
that itself and then we reched only to
store chunks in S3 like what the heck is
going on here um and the reality is that
these two chunks are optimized for
different things the upload and the
download and so they're differ size
chunks for upload these are like really
large chunks they're five to you know 10
megabytes in our cases and the goal is
to minimize the amount of HTP request
overhead uh they have some arbitrary
bite off sets there's no consideration
of the content boundaries for playback
or anything like that whereas our
streaming chunks are optimized for the
playback experience and so they're these
small segments these two to 10 second
segments so that we can get that quick
start and adaptability and we they tend
to be cut precisely at video key frames
for This Clean This Clean playback um so
smaller chunks larger chunks optimized
for different things that's why we chunk
two different times all right so coming
back over to our nonfunction
requirements we can see that the next
thing we need to worry about is low
latency streaming so less than 500
milliseconds to get that first pixel on
the screen I click a YouTube video and I
start seeing video and importantly this
should also be true in low bandwidth
environments and so by doing our
chunking we've satisfied that quick
first pixels on the screen we're low
latency now um but importantly we're not
necessarily low latency in different
bandwidths and so I want you to think
about it this way what if you wanted to
watch this YouTube video from like a bad
cafe Wi-Fi or maybe even on 3G and so
let's imagine that you had a 2 megabits
per second connection a pretty awful
connection probably much worse than what
you're watching this on then even one
chunk uh one two second chunk of a 4K
video could take 20 seconds for us to
download and so we certainly have not
met our half a second latency
requirement in that case right and so
this is where we need something called
transcoding we need to transcode the
video into a bunch of different bit
rates such that we can send the user the
optimal transcoding the optimal bit
rates the optimal resolution right so
that they can play a lower resolution
video if they are in a lower bandwidth
environment and so before I get into all
of that let me just really quickly go
over like what the heck is in a video
file that thing that we're storing in S3
what is it in the in the first place and
so I'm going to come over here I'm going
to paste something in so the video file
that we are storing is made up of a
couple components the first is the video
container itself and so this is like an
mp4 or anov this is what we're storing
in S3 and this is what you know and you
click on on your computer but this video
Container Stores a couple of things and
the first thing that it does is it
stores the video Codec and the video
Codec is just a method for compressing
raw video which would otherwise be
massive and so it's really cool it works
by identifying patterns or redundancies
in visual data and then Ino instead of
storing every single Pixel in every
single frame it just stores the complete
key frames occasionally like full images
the changes between frames this is like
your motion data and then some
instructions for reconstructing the
frames so it takes otherwise huge video
data and makes them smaller pretty cool
right and then the audio codec data we
won't focus on as much but but it's it's
a similar process just for audio and
then there's a handful of parameters
that are necessary for playback bit rate
resolution frame rate aspect ratio
duration all of that's in a video
container too and so this is useful to
know you would not at all need to say
this necessarily in a system design
interview I want to be clear there this
is me just kind of teaching the concept
so that you have the foundation um
instead when you come back here the
intuition is just that we're going to
need to create different codecs and
different bit rates and different
resolutions so that we can store smaller
videos that can be played on devices
with lower band with and so let me show
you what that might end up looking like
after we Chunk we could do the following
we could have a
transcoder whose job is to take that
chunk and turn it into 4K presumably
maybe our video already started at 4K we
can't really upsample too easily but
bear with me you'll get the picture
we'll have another one that handles
1080p we'll have another one that
handles
720p right and so on all the way up the
stack until we have one that's handling
our super low resolution maybe like a
240p and then and you know everything in
between and so after we're done with
chunking we're going to go to each of
these
respectively and in parallel each of the
trans codings of the chunks are going to
take
place and then afterwards they're going
to go and be stored back into to our
video metadata again I'm going to move
that guy down there and so now our
chunks is actually
chunks by
resolution right so we have different
chunks for each of these respective
resolutions we have a list of chunks per
resolution and so if we looked at that
maybe in like a a Json format you would
have something like this 240p and then a
list of the S3 URLs for those chunks in
order the
720p same thing you get the picture
right that's what that might end up
looking like and so we can handle those
trans codings and then of course once
transcoded we're going to store those
back in S3 as well so store back in S3
and so all of this is happening
asynchronously on video upload the user
uploads the video via S3 multipart
upload once the video is completely
uploaded it triggers an S3 notification
it hits the chunker the chunker chunks
it and then sends each of those chunks
to the transcoders to create these
different resolutions to alter the codec
bit rate resolution frame rate Etc
respectively store those back in S3 and
then update our metadata such that when
a user goes to watch our video we send
them this metadata and they can make a
determination based on their Network
conditions which S3 URLs they should
download in order to get the video
chunks at the correct resolution awesome
um but what about if a user started
watching a video in at home and maybe it
was 4K you know I have a uh 500 megabits
per second connection I'm sure you all
are on something similar but then I
leave and I want to continue watching
the video from my phone and I've been
downgraded to 3G for example and so this
is where adaptive bit rate comes in and
so what the client can actually be doing
is that we have code on the client such
that it checks your network conditions
it goes and it grabs that 4K video and
starts playing the first two chunks of
the 4K video but then instead of going
and fetching more chunks for the 4K
video it's periodically reassessing the
current Network conditions on the client
and adaptively fetching the subsequent
chunks based on those conditions and so
it would recognize okay Evans halfway
through his last chunk of the 4K video
but his network connection is just
downgraded to 3G instead of us going and
getting more 4K chunks let's give him
some 3 uh some some maybe 720p chunks so
that he can watch this on 3G
so as we continue to make improvements
here we start to see maybe new problems
or issues arising and so what you might
notice is that now our our latency
bottleneck is that we keep having to go
all the way to S3 and so maybe your user
is in I don't know Germany they're on
the east coast and your S3 is located in
US West so it's somewhere on the west
coast and so this is a pretty long way
for bittes to have to travel over the
network and so what we can do instead
then is we we can introduce a CDN over
here and what the CDN is going to do is
it's going to have popular video chunks
popular video
chunks and so instead of having to go
back and forth I'm a little cram for
space sorry guys instead of having to go
back and forth to S3 we can just
download these directly from the CDN and
the CDN of course a Content delivery
Network these are servers that are
located close to the users and so we
have lots of these things they operate
as a cache and so if you're in New York
you would just be hitting a CDN close to
you maybe in the New York Region in
order to get these chunks and we're
going to store just the popular videos
from those regions in the respective CDN
and then another thing that you can do
is that this thing that we created here
this mapping of each resolution to the
URLs this thing's actually referred to
in video streaming as a manifest file
and so this manifest file itself it's
just a file it's just a file in like
Json yaml XML something else right and
it can be stored directly in the CDN too
and so now look at how easy it is to
start streaming in parallel we can go
ask the video metadata for the name
description and whatnot but while we're
doing that we just reach out to the CDN
we first download our manifest file and
then using our manifest file we ask the
CDN okay I'm 720p I want the 720p stuff
and it comes right down from the CDN and
so now we're Wicked quick like maybe we
can even start streaming and showing
pixels before the name or the
description has showed up on the video
right pretty cool and so
importantly or maybe I should be careful
uh maybe not importantly to an actual
system design interview but important to
your intuition is that everything that
we just talked about everything from
designing segmentation methods for
breaking videos into chunks specifying
the the Manifest files format and
listing of the chunks the supporting of
the multiple qualities the enabling of
the Adaptive streaming on the client all
of this has been done uh it's all been
done by Common streaming protocols and
so streaming protocols do all of this
chunking and adaptive bit rate stuff for
you and there's two really common ones
there's hls which stands for HTTP live
streaming it was created by Apple and
there's Dash this is the main open
source one I think it's Dynamic adaptive
streaming over HTTP don't quote me on
that I think that's what it is um and
these guys do of those things that we
talked about and they're designed to
work over standard htps to work with
cdns to know when to chunk to know how
to do the Adaptive streaming and all of
this and so in an interview do you need
to know hls and dash of course not even
a staff candidate doesn't necessarily
need to know it if you bring it up is it
cool maybe sure but the more important
thing is that you understand the
fundamental components of a streaming
protocol the fundamental components
being that you need to chunk
asynchronously you need to transcode and
then you need to adaptively based on
network conditions fetch a man or fetch
a manifest file and then adaptively
based on network conditions use that
manifest file to fetch the chunks and
the subsequent chunks and all of that is
wrapped up in hls or Dash
respectively okay so taking a step back
again just let's make sure that we
understand fully What's Happening Here I
know a lot of information has been
thrown at you and so when a user goes to
upload a video they upload the video
directly to S3 using multi-part upload
so they chunk the video on the client
they send that video to S3
asynchronously when that video has
completed uploading we chunk it into
smaller chunks than we uploaded it into
about 2 second Clips we transcode each
of them into different resolutions we
store those resolutions back in S3 and
then we also store in S3 then a manifest
file that's this thing right explaining
how these chunks can be used in order to
be reconfigured into the actual video
and then when a user wants to actually
watch the video they're going to fetch
that manifest file either from S3
directly if it's not popular or from the
CDN if it's something that we have
cached in the CDN and then they're going
to use that manifest file in order to
fetch the subsequent chunks at the right
resolution and play them on the client
if they were to leave and go into a
different bandwidth environment the
client is always adaptively fetching the
next chunks based on the existing
Network conditions and all of this are
streaming protocols either hls or Dash
awesome so as we move towards the the
conclusion here we can come back to our
non-functional requirements the
availability over consistency we've done
this inherently by the fact that we have
this asynchronous processing of the
video and this means that users aren't
going to be able to see new videos until
that asynchronous processing has
actually completed and that's fine
because we stated eventual consistency
was fine we prefer availability so they
can just be watching the other videos
until that process completes so check
mark there uh scalability when we want
to scale to 1 million uploads per day
and 100 million views and so we can look
at our system and say where are our
bottlenecks where would things need to
scale and so our video service is
stateless this can just scale
horizontally any n number of times as
needed our API Gateway is also going to
be serving as a load balancer to to
balance appropriately here alternatively
if you're using an open source Gateway
that doesn't have load balancing you can
just have a load balancer in front
classic horizontal scaling true and most
system design interviews not the most
interesting thing
S3 uh this is in quotes infinitely
scalable um and so you can have huge
amounts of data here we're never going
to reach that limit we don't have any
problems with anything going on with S3
for our video metadata what we have 1
million uploads per day um and then this
is only like one kilobyte of data
because our chunks by resolution which
is the majority of the data is our
manifest file which we actually stored
in S3 in the cdns if you remember so we
ended up removing this and maybe I
should do that for clarity um and so
it's maybe just a kilobyte of of data
here it's not a lot maybe over a year
365 days this is is like right 35
terabyt of data over a year um not a lot
right obviously we'll have some user
information real YouTube has comments
likes all these things that would blow
this up for our cases there's not much
going on here um this could honestly
easily fit on a postgress instance for
many many years we could use dynamodb
here and it would also only require A
Single Shard if our interviewer asks us
about sharding uh if this was Dynamo DB
really I guess any database the the same
principle applies we would probably
Shard by video ID um and then in the
case of of Dynamo DB we would do sort
key on time the combination of those two
would be unique but it would allow us to
fetch the video sort by time uh we
probably want a global secondary index
on the user ID so you can get all videos
from a given user but that was outside
of the scope of our current requirements
so no concern same too with the chunker
and transcoding these are stateless so
these can just scale horizontally you'll
add more and more and more of these as
you need IDE dynamically and so when you
configure these things in cloud services
you usually con configure these
containers to Scale based on some
threshold of either memory or CPU
consumption and so if over 80% of memory
is used or over 70% of CPU to madeup
numbers then we would add more
horizontal services for us to be able to
to continue to scale to whatever our
needs are um the CDN this is going to be
maybe our expensive bit it just depends
on on what we can afford as a company if
we're YouTube we have CDN everywhere and
they're huge and they're going to store
a bunch of data and and life is good for
us um but that's how we would handle the
general scaling of the
system and so at the end of all of this
you have this fun design uh and we can
come back and look at our functional
requirements and say can users upload
videos yes can users watch and stream
videos yes did we prioritize
availability over consistency in other
words was video upload eventually
consistent yes can we support 256 GB yes
both on upload via chunking and download
via chunking so we have low latency
streaming even in low bandwidth
environments yes we have our transcoders
and our adip adaptive bit rate
downloading here um and then can we
scale to 1 million uploads a day and 100
million views yes and so consequentially
we have a design that would pass the
interview and everybody should be happy
let me talk a little bit about what
would be expected at each level though
because if you're a junior engineer and
a mid-level engineer you might be
looking at this with your head spinning
a little bit and I totally get that and
so for mid-level engine
um the chances are that you're not going
to have the intuition to know that you
need to Chunk on either side of this
immediately and so your interviewer is
probably going to ask you some questions
in order to lead you there they're going
to point out some things like well if I
were to download a 10 gab video it would
take this much time is there anything
that you can do to make that quicker and
then you should be able to problem solve
to understand that chunking chunking is
necessary and so you might get get to
chunking you might understand some cdns
you may never even get to transcoding
and that's okay maybe they give you some
hints about different bandwidths and you
realize at a really high level oh like I
know about 240p to 4K maybe I can just
you know put these into different
bandwidths even or resolutions even
without knowing the word transcoder that
would be fantastic for a mid-level
interview for a senior level interview I
expect a bit more intuition about the
need to chunk here I shouldn't need to
probe you you should understand
multi-part upload this is this is a
really common process for uploading any
large media uh you should also
understand just intuitively even if
you've never heard of any of these
streaming protocols and there would be
no expectation that you have that I
would need a chunk in order to have a
lower latency streaming environment and
then whether you get transcoding
proactively or not or it's something I
hint at um maybe no big deal but you
should understand that idea and then you
should think about some of these
optimizations with CDN manifest files
even if you don't know the word manifest
file of course you should be able to
answer my questions competently as the
interviewer um for staff level
candidates again I don't necessarily
expect that you know hls or Dash these
are things that only somebody who's
worked on streaming uh products in the
past would know but I do expect that
largely proactively you can you can get
here you understand proactively the need
for chunking and transcoding you have
the intuition of course that you need to
split up your video metadata and S3 and
maybe even along the way you you teach
me something you teach me something that
that I didn't know about any of these
given processes whether that's a
technology that I wasn't aware of uh
some way to handle this dag here and
retries and failures that's something we
didn't touch on but what happens if the
chunker fails right that's an
interesting part of the design that if
you have enough time a staff candidate
totally might go
into all right there you have it there
is our full design our full answer to
the system design interview question how
to design YouTube uh I hope you enjoyed
this go ahead and leave any comments I
try to respond to as many of those as I
possibly can of course stop by hello
interview.com check out our content our
guided practice our mock interviews
mentor ship everything you need there to
prepare for your upcoming interviews and
most importantly best of luck I Know
It's a Grind you're in it you're doing
great uh and you're going to crush all
right talk to you soon bye